README.md, before:

# About the project

The homotopy.io proof assistant allows the construction of composite morphisms in a finitely-generated semistrict n-category, via a point-and-click user interface. Composites are rendered as 2d and 3d geometries, and can be visualised in 4d as movies of 3d geometries. The proof assistant is implemented in the Rust programming language, and compiled to WebAssembly to run in the web browser. 

The master branch is hosted live here: https://beta.homotopy.io/

# Build instructions

`cargo build`

![Build status](https://github.com/homotopy-io/homotopy-rs/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)

# License

Unless explicitly stated otherwise, all contributions are licensed under the following terms.

## Source

homotopy.io source code is published under the terms of the [BSD 3-Clause License](LICENSE).

## Documentation

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />homotopy.io documentation is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License</a>.

Commit message:

Cleanup build procedure and document * remove dependency on wasm-pack * move Makefile.toml to workspace root * detailed instructions in README.md

README.md, after:

# About the project

The homotopy.io proof assistant allows the construction of composite morphisms in a finitely-generated semistrict n-category, via a point-and-click user interface. Composites are rendered as 2d and 3d geometries, and can be visualised in 4d as movies of 3d geometries. The proof assistant is implemented in the Rust programming language, and compiled to WebAssembly to run in the web browser.

For a description of how the tool works, please see the [nLab page](https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/homotopy.io).

The master branch is hosted live here: https://beta.homotopy.io/

# Developing

The easiest way to set up a development environment is with [Nix](https://nixos.org/). This will install Rust, and all the necessary tooling required to build the project. Additionally, this is the exact same environment that the CI uses, so providing that it is passing, this cannot fail:

![Build status](https://github.com/homotopy-io/homotopy-rs/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)

Any recent commit can be run with

```
nix run github:homotopy-io/homotopy-rs?rev=X
```

Please adhere to Rust stable and lint all code with `nix run github:homotopy-io/homotopy-rs#lint`.

## Development server

From the root of the project, run `cargo make serve`. This will build the app into `/dist`, and concurrently run a development server on http://localhost:8080, which refreshes whenever the code changes.

## Nix & GitHub Actions

This project uses GitHub Actions CI, for automating builds, testing, and deployment. GitHub Actions uses Nix to build, and the resulting compilation artifacts should like-for-like match those generated by `nix-build`. In particular, this allows binary artifacts (including witnesses of tests being run!) to be substituted across machines, in the standard way supported by Nix. Nix builds are cached on [Cachix](https://app.cachix.org/cache/homotopy-io). In other words, `nix-build | cachix push homotopy-io` allows the CI to skip compilation and test running.

Dependencies are updated via [Dependabot](https://github.com/dependabot), and are automatically merged (provided that all tests pass).

## Firebase

Builds are deployed to Firebase for hosting, by the GitHub Actions CI. https://beta.homotopy.io mirrors `master`, and any pull request generates a [Firebase Hosting preview](https://firebase.google.com/docs/hosting/test-preview-deploy#preview-channels) site, of the form homotopy-rs--homotopy-io-X.web.app.

In future, Firebase will also act as online storage for user projects.

# License

Unless explicitly stated otherwise, all contributions are licensed under the following terms.

## Source

homotopy.io source code is published under the terms of the [BSD 3-Clause License](LICENSE).

## Documentation

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />homotopy.io documentation is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License</a>.
